INTMDB-533: Feature Add: Programmatically Create Organizations (#1176)
mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas: website/docs/r/organization.html.markdown

---
layout: "mongodbatlas"
page_title: "MongoDB Atlas: organization"
sidebar_current: "docs-mongodbatlas-resource-organization"
description: |-
    Provides a Organization resource.
---

# Resource: mongodbatlas_organization

> `mongodbatlas_organization` provides a Organization resource. This allows organization to be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`mongodbatlas_organization` provides programmatic management (including creation) of a MongoDB Atlas Organization resource. 
```

> ~> **IMPORTANT NOTE:**  Creating an organization with this resource creates initial public and private key values that will need to be used in a separate terraform module/blueprint to permit access to new organization.

Reviewer: Not sure what this means, can you rephrase/make more clear? If easier feel free to borrow language from Atlas Admin API docs - https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/api-resources-spec/#tag/Organizations/operation/createOrganization

Reviewer 2: He's saying that you can't start creating things with this new key pair in the same Terraform apply that creates the new organization.   Just need to rephrase it to be a bit more clear.

Reviewer 2: Still could use improvement but not blocking on it.

Reviewer: thanks. updated directly in case you want to take another look @themantissa

> ~> **IMPORTANT NOTE:**  Creating an organization with this resource creates initial public and private key values that will need to be used in a separate terraform module/blueprint to permit access to new organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
~> **IMPORTANT NOTE:**  When you establish an Atlas organization using this resource, it automatically generates a set of initial public and private Programmatic API Keys. These key values are vital to store because you'll need to use them to grant access to the newly created Atlas organization.
```

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "mongodbatlas_organization" "test" {
  org_owner_id = "6205e5fffff79cde6f"
  name = "testCreateORG"
  description = "test API key from Org Creation Test"
  role_names = ["ORG_OWNER"]
}
```

## Argument Reference

> * `name` - (Required) The name of the organization you want to create. (Cannot be changed via this Provider after creation.)

Reviewer 2: This might need to change, depending on the answer to my question in the resource code.

Reviewer 2: Still need an answer on https://github.com/mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas/pull/1176/files#r1213704086

Reviewer: @martinstibbe i think we are missing `isDeleted` here: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/api-resources-spec/#tag/Organizations/operation/renameOrganization

Author: Added isDeleted

> * `org_owner_id` - (Required) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies the Atlas user that you want to assign the Organization Owner role. This user must be a member of the same organization as the calling API key. This is only required when authenticating with Programmatic API Keys.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `org_owner_id` - (Required) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies the Atlas user that you want to assign the Organization Owner role. This user must be a member of the same organization as the calling API key.  This is only required when authenticating with Programmatic API Keys.  [https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/api-resources-spec/#tag/MongoDB-Cloud-Users/operation/getUserByUsername](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/api-resources-spec/#tag/MongoDB-Cloud-Users/operation/getUserByUsername)
```

FYI @Zuhairahmed - another reason we need Atlas Users added soon. Right now you can't use a data source to easily get the Atlas user id within the provider.

Reviewer: makes sense @themantissa, this should be part of near term future release

> * `description` - API Key description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `description` - Programmatic API Key description
```

> ~> **NOTE:** Organization created will return a new API Key that would be used by other Terraform modules/blueprints.

Reviewer 2: Trying to make a bit more clear:
```suggestion
~> **NOTE:** Creating an organization will return a new API Key pair that can be used to authenticate and manage the new organization  with MongoDB Atlas Terraform modules/blueprints.  You cannot use the newly created API key pair to manage the newly created organization in the same Terraform module/blueprint that the organization is created in.
```

* `role_names` - (Required) List of Organization roles that the Programmatic API key needs to have. Ensure you provide: at least one role and ensure all roles are valid for the Organization.  You must specify an array even if you are only associating a single role with the Programmatic API key.
 The following are valid roles:
  * `ORG_OWNER`
  * `ORG_GROUP_CREATOR`
  * `ORG_BILLING_ADMIN`
  * `ORG_READ_ONLY`
  * `ORG_MEMBER` 
 
  
## Attributes Reference

In addition to all arguments above, the following attributes are exported:

* `org_id` - The organization id.
* `public_key` - Public API key value set for the specified organization API key.

> * `private_key` - Redacted private key returned for this organization API key. This key displays unredacted when first created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `private_key` - Redacted private key returned for this organization API key. This key displays unredacted when first created and is saved within the Terraform state file.
```
